theoretic notions of security (in the case of encryption, both these relaxations
are necessary in order to go beyond the limitations of perfect secrecy discussed
in the previous chapter):
1. Security is only guaranteed against efficient adversaries that run for some
feasible amount of time. This means that given enough time (or suffi-
cient computational resources) an attacker may be able to violate secu-
rity. If we can make the resources required to break the scheme larger
than those available to any realistic attacker, then for all practical pur-
poses the scheme is unbreakable.
2. Adversaries can potentially succeed (i.e., security can potentially fail)
with some very small probability. If we can make this probability suffi-
ciently small, we need not worry about it.
To obtain a meaningful theory, we need to precisely define the above relax-
ations. There are two general approaches for doing so: the concrete approach
and the asymptotic approach. These are described next.
3.1.1 The Concrete Approach
The concrete approach to computational security quantifies the security of a
cryptographic scheme by explicitly bounding the maximum success probabil-
ity of any (randomized) adversary running for some specified amount of time
or, more precisely, investing some specific amount of computational effort.
Thus, a concrete definition of security takes roughly the following form:
A scheme is (t, ε)-secure if any adversary running for time at
most t succeeds in breaking the scheme with probability at most ε.
(Of course, the above serves only as a general template, and for the above
statement to make sense we need to define exactly what it means to “break”
the scheme in question.) As an example, one might have a scheme with the
guarantee that no adversary running for at most 200 years using the fastest
available supercomputer can succeed in breaking the scheme with probability
better than 2−60. Or, it may be more convenient to measure running time in
terms of CPU cycles, and to construct a scheme such that no adversary using
at most 280 cycles can break the scheme with probability better than 2−60.
It is instructive to get a feel for the large values of t and the small values
of ε that are typical of modern cryptographic schemes.
Example 3.1
Modern private-key encryption schemes are generally assumed to give almost
optimal security in the following sense: when the key has length n—and so
the key space has size 2n—an adversary running for time t (measured in, say,
computer cycles) succeeds in breaking the scheme with probability at most
